welcome back to the horse horsemanship
today we're working with two-year-old
spoiled rotten the history on this horse
he was raised in boarding facility and a
lot of people hand pet him carrots when
he's younger and pretty much they tried
to basically make long story short they
tried to imprint had a bad thing about
it it's you ladies out there and I hate
keep harping on the ladies but and when
your horse is lippy it doesn't mean they
love you and they're giving you sweet
little kisses they're looking for
something and eventually they're gonna
fight like him he just bit me she's
minutes ago when I brought him in
because I wasn't going to hand feed him
nothing he's looking for something to
fight them off a little bit here
he's Rolo yes he cares good boy
all right there I quit ridin came to
walk which is great and some people say
oh he don't like the Spurs so driving
without first well hell he's kicking out
even affect today he's not doing so much
but he's kicked out even when I get a
little more speed out gave me some
resistance to me
okay getting ready say before you start
good however come on ask for a counter
departure so I'm getting some my left
leg put my hand forward painter chin
right forward drag it some more speed
out
alright there are actors and a little
bit with my prop use combination my leg
and my crop there that's what I'm
looking for that was pretty a sweet ride
bring down till home
he's trying to pushing my hands so I
just hold my hands steady he wants to
push that nose out that's this problem
it's not mine the way he does and I
don't care where he backs up right now
I just want to get his feet on lock even
backwards there right there right there
I got a few good strides backing up you
know this is a talent horse he's smart
if he didn't have his little quirks he'd
be no time I cried him with my way
because he's sensitive like well the
dude right there I took my inside leg
roll my spur he turns his head it'll
give some outside leg and turn I'm gonna
roll my spurt here tick him a little bit
he turns that head I'm gonna use my left
leg and push that shoulder around right
there I turn his head by using my leg no
use my other spur getting new that
shoulder
and we'll give this horse really
sensitive my legs because that's one
things he don't like and you know I'll
be honest with you that's I'm not
hurting him there's no reason why he
shouldn't like it
so that's
yeah I got watching because he is on a
two-year-old I can't overwork him keep
him sound like a tower horse and the
owner realize she messed up so there's
hope for her in the horse you know the
main thing when you're raising a bull
treat that pole like force see that pole
like you were his mother a horse mother
not a human mother